---
ID: 241
post_title: 'Quikiks &#8211; June 10th, 2014'
author: yaniv@bioangels.net
post_date: 2015-08-18 20:36:05
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: >
  http://www.1stpitchlifescience.com/quikiks-june-10th-2014/
published: true
tc-thumb-fld:
  - 'a:2:{s:9:"_thumb_id";b:0;s:11:"_thumb_type";s:10:"attachment";}'
layout_key:
  - ""
post_slider_check_key:
  - "0"
---
<h2><a href="http://globenewswire.com/news-release/2014/06/20/645625/10086494/en/Quikiks-Wins-Mid-Atlantic-Bio-Angels-1st-Pitch-Life-Science-Competition.html">Quikiks Wins Mid-Atlantic Bio Angels 1st Pitch Life Science Competition</a></h2>
<h4 class="subheadline"><a href="http://globenewswire.com/news-release/2014/06/20/645625/10086494/en/Quikiks-Wins-Mid-Atlantic-Bio-Angels-1st-Pitch-Life-Science-Competition.html">Developer of Hands Free Assistive Footwear Chosen as "Best in Show" for Its Straightforward Approach to a Common Health Challenge</a></h4>
<div id="content-L2">
<div id="share-print">
<div id="___plusone_0"></div>
</div>
<div id="post-content-metadata"><a href="http://globenewswire.com/news-release/2014/06/20/645625/10086494/en/Quikiks-Wins-Mid-Atlantic-Bio-Angels-1st-Pitch-Life-Science-Competition.html"><span class="post-metadata dt-green"><em><time datetime="2014-06-20T13:40:00Z">June 20, 2014 09:40</time> ET</em> </span>| <strong>Source:</strong>Mid Atlantic Bio Angels</a>
<div class="spacer"></div>
<div class="post-type  rightalign"></div>
</div>
NEW YORK, June 20, 2014 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Mid-Atlantic Bio Angels (MABA) announces today that Quikiks (<a href="http://globenewswire.com/Tracker?data=BKpFDG0iRa_zyyPlH1vx0m20DOHEYHfvpV5-Uy6lKI-owCRTguw_aYpcLz38lREEwdzIeX46wjjNXzfzPl487A%3D%3D" rel="nofollow">www.quikiks.com</a>), a New York area company that has developed a hands-free shoe, was chosen as "best in show" at MABA's 1st Pitch Life Science event, which took place June 10, 2014.

Quikiks has developed a shoe that allows a hinged heel portion, when struck against the floor, to widen, allowing the wearer to simply step out of the shoe. To get in, the wearer slips his foot into the enlarged entry way and as he steps down, the heel portion snaps closed and secures with a magnetic locking mechanism, which the company has trademarked "<strong><i>Step-in-Go</i></strong>™." The Step-in-Go™ mechanism keeps the shoe fastened for normal wear in any context from regular ambulation to running and jumping. Unlike slippers, flip-flops, or clog-like shoes, shoes with <strong><i>Step-in-Go</i></strong>™ technology will not slip off the feet, plus they provide the wearer with the medically-necessary heel and ankle support required for orthopedic footwear. And because the shoe's lining is made with an anti-microbial material, wearers can use the shoes without socks. In addition, the insole in a Quikiks shoe can easily be replaced with a custom orthotic.

"In the life sciences space we're used to seeing high-tech approaches designed to address complicated medical needs -- but sometimes simple solutions to straightforward problems make for the best product ideas," said 1<sup>st</sup> Pitch panelist Arthur Klausner, CEO of Jade Therapeutics and Gem Pharmaceuticals, and a former Partner at the life sciences venture capital firms Domain Associates and Pappas Ventures. "This certainly seems to be the case with Quikiks, where founder Steve Kaufman did a terrific job at describing and demonstrating the company's innovative solution to hands-free footwear."

"It was extremely informative to participate in this event, as it not only helped me anticipate some of the questions I might encounter when seeking out funding, but it also presented the unique opportunity to learn from fellow presenters and the critiques they received," said Steve Kaufman, CEO and inventor of Quikiks. "I am grateful for the validation of the technology and the business model, as well as the important networking opportunity presented by 1<sup>st</sup> Pitch by bringing many of the MABA members together, along with a variety of additional resources that will likely prove valuable as we continue development."

Quikiks anticipates that there is a significant market for the shoes, including people with many different types of physical and cognitive challenges that prevent them from being able to bend over to put on or tie their shoes.

"Quikiks clearly and succinctly presented the market need and the company's business strategy in a way that the audience could easily relate to, believe and understand. Founder Steve Kaufman well earned the 'Best in Show' title," said Yaniv Sneor, another panelist and President of Blue Cactus Consulting and a Co-Founder of Mid Atlantic Bio Angels.

At a 1st Pitch event (<a href="http://globenewswire.com/Tracker?data=4srgtoNW7sDUYLmJQJKeocjGQrMYRyU7LUTpvIx2kBXwsXuBuZsWYKBTxFZ1AyFxqaH5fVT-18ViRrd9EaZznM1KldjmCiL-gg_93TRfbb8%3D" rel="nofollow">www.1stpitchlifescience.com</a>), early stage life sciences and healthcare companies make a 15-minute presentation to a panel of experienced life science investors and consultants, followed by a 15-minute audience Q&amp;A. However, where actual investors would then ask the presenting company to leave the room during their subsequent discussion, presenting companies at 1<sup>st</sup> Pitch are invited to hear the panel constructively critique the company's presentation, business model and perceived viability in the market.

About MABA

Mid Atlantic Bio Angels (<a href="http://globenewswire.com/Tracker?data=nGyCfjVTjTYEei5pIfAv3x_pnNe3t0faP6PPckKpuGFrW023O4VEiI-Z8VwBpJlRHM9xSuq1AhezX5aww9nZow%3D%3D" rel="nofollow">http://bioangels.net</a>) is a group of active angel investors, which meets in New York City monthly (except July and August) solely to hear from pre-screened early-stage life science companies. MABA members consist of individuals from Delaware to Massachusetts with significant expertise and experience in the biotechnology, pharmaceutical and healthcare industries, including former and current corporate executives, doctors and Ph.D. scientists with product development backgrounds, successful medical entrepreneurs and analyst/investors focused on life sciences. MABA's goal is to create an environment where the depth of investors' knowledge coupled with the pre-screening of presenting companies enhances the potential for meaningful investment.

</div>
- See more at: http://globenewswire.com/news-release/2014/06/20/645625/10086494/en/Quikiks-Wins-Mid-Atlantic-Bio-Angels-1st-Pitch-Life-Science-Competition.html#sthash.CkPg2A4l.dpuf